And now, since we've laid this foundation
with the primer, here's the big idea.
After 20 years of programming,
I realized that I've
essentially been doing the same
four things over and over and over.
Describing things,
performing actions, making decisions,
and then repeating these
particular actions over and
over and over with iteration.
And so I realized that programming
in its fundamental basis,
data structures, functions,
conditionals, and iterators.
Or, as I like to think of it, is just
nouns, verbs, conditionals, and iterators.
And I had realized that I've been
doing these particular things or
working with these particular things with
ease since I was a very small child.
And when this hit me,
I realized and I started to think
about the arc that I went on
in terms of skill acquisition
that I spent 20 years programming and
programming and
programming to arrive at a place that,
Essentially was almost where I started.
And I began to think about
other areas in my life
where this particular
pattern started to emerge.
And I thought about martial arts,
I thought about skateboarding,
I thought about everything that I've
ever done in terms of skill acquisition.
And I realized that mastery
is not a cumulative,
that true mastery is reductive, that you,
over time, are reducing a complex domain
into its most simple and basic parts.
And I think that to a point, if you've
ever participated in an activity with
somebody who's really, really good, and
you ask them like, how did you do that?
Let's say you're playing music.
What did you just do there?
I don't know,
I just I did it because something has
been reduced to peer muscle memory.
So in the skill acquisition
matrix is that at the far end,
you have unconscious competent,
that you reduce things
to such a point that cognitively
is barely even registering.
And so with that in mind,
I realized that after I reduced everything
that I'd done in programming for
20 years to these four things.
I realized most small children,
they are familiar with these concepts.
And so let's do a quick thought exercise.
If I showed you three trays of donuts,
we have a blue tray,
a green tray, and
let's say an orange tray.
And we have three trays
of donuts on a table, and
I said to a child,
do you see those trays of donuts?
Do you see the green tray?
On that tray, find all the donuts
that have sprinkles on them.
Bring them back to me.
Is there anything in this
statement that is mysterious,
hard to understand that most
children would not be able to parse?
And I feel like probably not,
especially in regards to my kids.
If there were donuts on a table that
this would almost be less of a pull
based transaction or more of a push
based transaction that they would go and
find the donuts and consume them.
But here, we realize that
these are some very digestible
commands that even small
children understand.
And so in terms of code, select the tray.
Well, trays.find and
you loop over the tray.
So again, we're talking about
a collection, which is a form of a noun.
And we're iterating over it and
we're evaluating is the tray color green?
If it is, then the trays are sitting,
you're saying, shall I stay or shall I go.
If I go, there'll be trouble.
If I stay, there will be double.
And so that's one of my favorite
conditionals ever, but we're saying,
if this is green, you're coming with me.
And then now you have a selected tray
that has donuts, another collection.
We're filtering them out and we're saying,
does this donut have sprinkles?
If yes, we set it aside and we are
creating a new array of sprinkled donuts,
and the best function in the world,
child.fetch(sprinkleDonuts).
And so this is the big idea.
Drumroll [SOUND] our goal
is not to learn more.
My goal here today is not to
just heap on new knowledge,
new principles, new concepts.
But rather, it's not to learn more, but
to gain a deeper understanding
of what we already know.
And so this is where,
as we start on a journey with any kind
of skill acquisition,
it's accumulative by nature.
And as we start to gain mastery,
what we start to realize is that
we don't have to learn more,
we need to understand
what we already know.
And so this is the highest
possible principle that
I can lay out today is that our goal
is to not necessarily learn new things.
But I want to present things in such a way
to help you gain a deeper understanding of
what you already know